All right, next, so before we get started
we kind of need to cover a little bit of
like groundwork because I
don't know like I said,.
I don't know how experienced you are with
the terminal but I know that you're
somewhat experienced at this point
we've cut in typing some commands.
So let's just talk about piping.
Piping is something that we do often and
you may not realize you're doing it.
Let's talk about this right now.
So I'm gonna jump over to a little,
temporary folder really quickly,
you're probably like how did he
just do such a quick navigation?
Well, that's what we're building
right now, let's do this.
I'm going to create a file called pipe.js,
right?
I assume we're all fairly
familiar with JavaScript.
I won't even use TypeScript keeping it
superduper simple here, very, very simple.
So what I want to do is I want to show
you the value or how piping works.
So you've seen these commands before,
right?
Where you have some program a bar, another
program, a bar another program, right?
You've probably typed this into
your terminal you probably cut and
paste it before.
If you remember when I did let's see.
Let's go like this curl.
There you go look at that.
Are you gonna you're gonna pipe all these
things I thought I had something with.
What did I do?
I thought I had one inside my ansible.
Ansible them slash my there we go.
Okay, I curl and
I pipe it into sh right here.
So it's something we do all the time.
We may not realize we do
this all the time, right?
But we actually do do it all the time.
So let's go back.
And what I want to what I want to show you
is like kind of how that works, right?
So let's reopen a vim let's look at pipe.
Now, I always forget how to
read from the standard in.
So read standard in, all right?
That's how we do that.
Grab that, go down here,
yank that, all right, awesome.
And now let's paste that in.
So that there we go we're
reading from the standard in.
So if you don't know what
the standard in is, let me show you.
Also I hopefully you're like how did
he get all that information so quickly?
Show you, don't worry, we'll get there.
We're getting there.
Okay, I wanna, I'm leading you,
I want you to be excited about
what we're learning right now.
So anytime you run a program from the
terminal, what is really is happening, and
this is in some crude sense,
obviously this is not 100% true.
It's just sort of true, right?
You have a program that runs and
it gets standard in into it.
Now if you're typing and pressing Enter,
have you ever used a program where you
actually have to type into
it from the command line.
That's because it's
taking your terminal and
the input coming in from your terminal and
piping it into the program.
And the stuff that it produces or
writes out to your terminal,
it's coming out of the standard out,
the stdout.
There's also another
one called the stdair.
We don't need to worry
about that right now.
So if you do the pipe operator say we
do A, B what's really happening is that
the outright here from a is actually
being directly inputted much like your
input from the terminal going into
A will be piped into B,, right?
So that out from A is going
into the in from B and
the out from B is going into the terminal.
And so that's kind of like
what's happening with piping and
to make it really obvious.
We're gonna build a little small
program right now together.
We're gonna build a program that
will read from the standard in and
write to standard out, and
it's gonna take in a line.
Now the line, let's say it's a bunch
of space delimited numbers and
we wanna sum them and
we want to write it back out.
Actually, let's keep that previous line.
So let's like this, let's go
line.split( )reduce(sum, x).
Some plus x,
but we need another plus because we
got to convert it to a number, right?
Look at that.
That's just love JavaScript.
There we go.
We get that.
And there we go.
We've now done everything but
there we go beautiful.
So now we've done everything we've
taken a line split by whitespace and
summed every component casting
every single token into a number.
Awesome.
So if we provided a list of numbers, it's
going to provide us the sum back out, and
we're going to read it from the line.
So let's put one more
little thing right here.
We'll just go like this how about line.
Awesome.
So let's close that.
And now we need to feed it some lines.
So we can go like this, node pipe, right?
And so to kind of prove the point of
this picture that what you write into
the terminal goes into the program,
I'm gonna go like this.
I'm gonna go 5, 6 or 7, 9, press Enter.
It just told me back out, line 21.
The output from A is going into my
terminal the input from me is going into
A, right?
So let's close this thing down.
And instead, let's use echo,
5, 7, 9 new line 11, 13 ,15.
Why all odd numbers I don't know and
let's pipe it into node pipe dot j s.
So it's gonna run, it's gonna sum
each line as it experiences it.
And so
that's what just happened right there.
Notice that A piped into B
be piped into my terminal.
So hopefully you kinda
get this idea of pipes.
I just really wanna make sure
that no one feels left behind.
As we do these things or when they see the
pipe operator, it's not like some magical.
There's nothing magical about it right?
It's actually a pretty simple item and
it makes a lot of sense.
Alright, awesome.
I'm sure there's better
ways of explaining it.
That's just my best way of explaining it,
writing a little program seeing how it is
because we're about to
do some programming.
And it's gonna be an everyone's
favorite language bash,
which is a write once language.
You write it once you enjoy it, it breaks,
you look at it, you delete it and
you write it and go.
So it's a right one's kinda language, but
we're gonna start with bash because
you should know a little bit of bash.
I like to write enough bash
to shoot myself in the foot.
I feel like that's
the proper amount of bash.